Well we're getting close to finishing the MEK here.
But there are a couple of things that we should do.
I think first of all I'm going to create a couple of rocket boosters on the bottom of the jet pack here.
But as I'm looking at this I'm beginning to see a problem here.
Let me show you what I mean.
See these pinching little areas that are kind of pinching that tells me that there's a problem there.
If we tap into edit mode you can see yeah look at these edges.
How they're being pulled down to these points.
And if I go into the modifiers tab and just turn off the display modifier here you can see that we can't
really see any problem here per se.
Only when you turn on the subdivision surface modifier do we see a problem.
And that's actually a pretty good way to test a mesh especially if you've mirrored it and then sealed
it back up the subdivision surface modifier is just a good way to test and make sure that all the points
have been merged together.
So for this we can see that they have it.
There's a problem.
And when you see something like this your first instinct may be to go straight to these points and try
and figure out what's wrong with these.
But in reality it's this one between these two.
That is the problem.
And if we come in here let's take a look.
My guess is is that this is a point that we've got two points here that aren't merged together.
So what to do about that.
Well I'm going to undo here to put these back the way they were.
What we need to do is just merge them together so I'm going to select one.
I've got one slug here and then I'm going to shift select the other one and then I'm going to press
Allt m to bring up the merge menu and choose center and that will merge those two together and take
away that tolling that was happening from the points on either side of that.
All right.
So we've cleaned that up a bit and we're going to need to split the body out again.
You can see here that the shoulder hasn't been keeping up with what we've been doing on the shoulder
on this side here.
So we're going to have to ultimately split the body down the middle and re mirror it to get that information
over here again.
And when we do we'll make sure to look for problem points like that again.
All right.
So let's take a look at creating the rocket boosters here for this I think I just need a cylinder and
I'm going to place it up in here.
My idea is that he's got this jet pack that allows him to fly down into the environment.
So the 3D cursor is in the center of the grid.
Let's go ahead and go to the Create tab create a cylinder.
Let's take a look at the settings here.
I don't need 32.
I'll take that down to 12 sides.
And for the cap fill I don't need anything on it right now at all.
So now I'll bring it up and place it.
One good way to place an object like this is to actually see it in four different views.
We bring this back down and I'm going to press control alt cue and that will bring up the quad view
here.
And also I'm going to press the T key to get rid of the Tools panel over here and now we can kind of
get a better view of this.
Now if I press the Z key I can really get a good sense of where this object is within my scene.
So I'm going to move this up and hit the G key and move it up scale it down with the key.
And I'm just going to move it into place here.
Kind of looking at all of my views and sometimes this can really help speed things up.
Right.
I'm going to press the period key to zoom in here.
And maybe zoom in here as well and I'll tumble around and see how I'm doing.
So I think I want it kind of like this.
But I'd like it scaled in a bit.
I want it kind of oval like this.
So now I'll press control alt cue again and that'll take me back to the perspective view and I'll tab
into Edit Mode go to edges.
Also like this edge and I'm going to scale this down just a little bit.
So it's kind of funneled down and I think that's what I'm looking for something kind of like this.
Now for the insides I'll just grab this edge now and I'm going to hit the key and click and then hit
the s key and scale in the key again and click and go to my move tool and move it up a bit scaled down
a tad and then the e again scale in.
And now I want to connect these I'll hit the key one more time and click and then I'll press alt M and
merge at the center and that will collapse all of those down into a single point.
So now you can't see up into it.
I don't think we're ever going to be looking up into this like this but that'll just ensure that if
we do we won't see anything up in there.
Now I think I'll go ahead and add a subdivision surface modifier to it.
And I'll turn on the page here increased the subdivisions to two in the viewport I'll come back to the
tool shelf here and click smooth shading and we go all turn off this cage here.
So we can see it a little better in edit mode.
What's happening.
And here's where I'll go ahead and begin adding a few edge loops I'll add one here and bring it down.
And maybe I'll add two along the rim here with the scroll wheel.
So now add a couple in here as well.
And maybe one in here that I can scale out
something like that.
And now I'm just going to duplicate it and move it over.
Let me go to the properties panel with the key and I'm going to scroll up here.
So what I'm going to do is actually copy this I'm going to select it and I'm going to press commander
control to copy and then I'll come back out here and duplicate this with Shiff D and click and I'm going
to move it over.
And now I can type in negative and command or control V to paste and that'll place it the same distance
from the center that the other one was.
So let's see how that looks.
I feel like I need it.
I feel like they need to be a little bit bigger.
I'm going to try this again.
I'm going to scale this this way now like they need a little bit bigger to support the weight of this
big thing here.
Something like that
negative commander control V and enter.
And that will paste that information into that field.
So now we have our jet pack for the Mac.
Let's see how that works as we move forward.
I think I'll go ahead and name these maybe Jet 1 and jet to.
I also had the thought of putting little rubber strips on the bottom of his shoes here.
I don't know why I just think and be kind and cool.
So I'm going to select one of these and maybe select a point that I can snap the cursor to here.
Shift Yes cursor to selected then I'll just go to the Create tab and create cube and that will pop into
there.
I'll scale it down.
And I just want to scale this so it's kind of a flat thin piece kind of like this.
I'm going to press the seven key to go to the top view but I can't see it there so I can actually press
control 7 to look at it from the bottom view.
So there we go.
That's control 7.
All right.
So I'm going to place these I'm going to scale this and move this down here like this.
And I'm going to press the five key to go to orthographic view.
And so now I can see exactly how big this is in comparison to the foot and kind of want it to be like
that
something like this.
And now I think I'd like to delete the face on top.
I won't need that.
I'm going to go ahead and add a subdivision surface modifier to see how it looks and it looks pretty
terrible.
If I tab into edit mode and increase the views to two I'll smooth it in object mode.
I've got to go to object mode to smooth the shading here.
Now back in edit mode let's see how this works let me close this properties panel and I will insert
an edge loop here and I'm going to scroll the mouse wheel to create two and then click twice and I'm
going to go to this scale tool and scale these out like that and I'll do that again the other way like
this and scale those out.
So I should have something like that.
Now I can insert this back up into the foot.
I'm thinking this is going to be like a gray or black rubber substance.
And from here I'll press control seven again and the five key and now I can press shift D and duplicate
these as I need
and maybe I'll do one down here that's kind of smaller so I'll take this down here and scale it down
to take one of these and duplicated up here.
So I'm just trying to add a little detail and interest to the bottom of the feet.
I think we may see the bottom of the feet as he comes down into the environment.
There we go.
So now we've got those pieces on the bottom of the foot.
Ultimately we'll need to join these together into a single object for the wheel here.
And for the toe.
But for right now that's pretty good.